---
title: 2048 A Basic Example
sidebar: platform_sidebar
---

## How does event collection work?

While Astronomer Clickstream can provide tremendous value for any company with a website or mobile app, we understand that clickstream data may be conceptually difficult to understand. Towards the objective of simplifying it, we've thrown together a basic example in which you can get some hands-on experience with our `track` [API call](../calls.html).

We crafted this example with a game we all know and love: 2048. When you play 2048, you are telling the app to either move tiles `up`, `down`, `left`, or `right`. Each of these movements represents a specific *event* that is logged by this `track` call:

```
{
  "method": "track",
  "request": {
    "integrations": {},
    "context": {
      "page": {
        "path": "/2048/",
        "referrer": "",
        "search": "",
        "title": "Astronomer's 2048",
        "url": "https://astronomerio.github.io/2048/"
      }
    },
    "properties": {
      "anonymousId": "c027b3e0-07a0-4d64-b537-a157a9f6fa15"
    },
    "event": "up",
    "anonymousId": "c027b3e0-07a0-4d64-b537-a157a9f6fa15",
    "timestamp": "2017-10-26T14:50:53.815Z"
  }
}
```

Once those events are tracked, they can be pushed to a warehouse or analytics tool of your choice.

Let's walk through gameplay to show exactly how those events are tracked and logged. We have connected this client-side event tracking to [Keen.io](/destinations/keenio.html), which then records events in the panels on the right hand side of the page. 

Let's start start by pressing the `up` arrow on our keyboard, moving the tiles to the top of the box.

[2048-1](../../../images/2048-1.gif)

As you can see, the `up` arrow logs a `track` API call with the event name `up`. Once we refresh the page, we will see the event registered in our Keen.io panels.

[2048-2](../../../images/2048-2.gif)

There you have it; we're well on our way to generating insights based on user event data! We're not done yet, though. We are also able to issue a `track` call when a user starts a new game.

[2048-3](../../../images/2048-3.gif)

After collecting a more substantial amount of event data, we can track a variety of trends, such as:
* How far into the game users get before starting a new game
* Which corner of the board is most popular for users to move to
* The minimum amount of key strokes it took for someone to win the game. 


Now, that you've seen our walkthrough, <a href="https://astronomerio.github.io/2048/" target="_blank">Click here to play the game yourself!</a>